# Crime-Stats-Geo
Final from CMP 464 just cleaned up a bit 

COVID-19 was not only a pandemic that caused issues with the health of the public, but also affected other aspects of our daily lives with economic and political consequences. One of those consequences that was directly caused by COVID was the xenophobia that is being displayed towards the Asian minorities in different cities across the United States. In New York, articles and headlines about hate crimes directed towards specifically the Chinese population (and sometimes even the general Asian/Pacific Islander population) were becoming more and more common as we were in lockdown. 
	For this project, I propose using the NYPD’s data for Hate Crimes that were recorded from 2019 and 2020. This data set includes the year the complaint was made, the month, the arrest date, the precinct number that the crime would fall under, the county, the motive, and even the crime itself. Although the specific ethnicity we are looking at is “ASIAN”, looking at how the other hate crimes increased or decreased would provide valuable insight on trends and patterns. 
	The methods that would be employed would include plotting graphs, grouping and filtering the datasets by different variables including what type of hate crime was committed, and even geospatial plotting by precinct numbers/boroughs. 
	The goal of this project in my eyes is to figure out if the Asian minority has actually seen an increase in hate crimes in the past year due to the blaming of China and Asians as a group of COVID-19. I am also more curious about where these hate crimes would be taking place in the city and whether it is in highly populated areas of that minority or less densely populated areas. If there is a trend that can clearly be seen from analyzing the NYPD’s data, hopefully figuring out where and when these events take place can further the safety of New York as a whole
